---
layout: "post"
title: "PAWsim: Parachute and Wind Tunnel Simulator"
date: "2023-01-26 16:00:00"
categories: project
images:
    - url: "/assets/images/2023-01-26-pawsim-cloth.gif"
    - url: "/assets/images/2023-01-26-pawsim-parachute.gif"
---

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/2023-01-26-pawsim-logo.png" width="40%"  %}




Aircraft noise and climate impact have long been a topic of concern for communities living near airports. With increasing population density and the pressing issue of climate change, it is more important than ever to minimize the impact of aircraft on our environment and our daily lives.



General aviation, which includes small, privately-owned planes and helicopters, can cause a significant amount of noise nuisance over a wide area. In order to address this issue, a new project is being undertaken to optimize aircraft routes for general aviation in order to minimize fuel consumption and the number of people affected by noise.

The project, which is being carried out at Rotterdam The Hague Airport, will use a grid system to map out popular routes for general aviation. Nodes on the grid will represent neighborhoods and the connections between them will be based on distance. By analyzing the number of people affected by noise in each neighborhood and the distance traveled, the project team will be able to determine the most efficient and least disruptive routes for general aviation.

{% include hero.html url="/assets/images/2023-01-26-pawsim-flow-cut.gif" background-color="white" width="80%" %}

Not only will this project have a positive impact on the environment by reducing fuel consumption, it will also improve the quality of life for communities living near the airport. By minimizing the amount of noise pollution caused by general aviation, residents will be able to enjoy a quieter and more peaceful environment.

This project is an important step towards addressing the impact of aircraft on our environment and communities. By optimizing aircraft routes, we can reduce fuel consumption, minimize noise pollution and improve the quality of life for people living near airports. We look forward to seeing the results of this project and the potential for it to be applied to other airports around the world.


{% include hero.html gallery=page.images  %}
